[Ray Serve] Add 2 examples of serving models on HPU (#42820)
ray-project/ray: doc/source/serve/tutorials/hpu_inference_serve.md

```{literalinclude} ../doc_code/hpu_inference_client.py
:language: python
:start-after: __main_code_start__
:end-before: __main_code_end__
```

Here is an example output:
```text
Once upon a time, in a far-off land, there was a magical kingdom called "Happily Ever Laughter." It was a place where laughter was the key to unlocking all the joys of life, and where everyone lived in perfect harmony.
In this kingdom, there was a beautiful princess named Lily. She was kind, gentle, and had a heart full of laughter. Every day, she would wake up with a smile on her face, ready to face whatever adventures the day might bring.
One day, a wicked sorcerer cast a spell on the kingdom, causing all
in a far-off land, there was a magical kingdom called "Happily Ever Laughter." It was a place where laughter was the key to unlocking all the joys of life, and where everyone lived in perfect harmony.
In this kingdom, there was a beautiful princess named Lily. She was kind, gentle, and had a heart full of laughter. Every day, she would wake up with a smile on her face, ready to face whatever adventures the day might bring.
One day, a wicked sorcerer cast a spell on the kingdom, causing all
```

> ## Running a sharded model on multiple HPUs

Author: resolved

# Serving an inference model on Intel Habana Gaudi

[Habana® Gaudi® AI Processor (HPU)](https://habana.ai) training processors are AI hardware accelerators designed by Habana Labs. They are designed to maximize training throughput and efficiency, while providing developers with optimized software and tools that scale to many workloads and systems. For more information, check out [Gaudi Architecture](https://docs.habana.ai/en/latest/Gaudi_Overview/index.html) and [Gaudi Developer Docs](https://developer.habana.ai/).

> In this tutorial, we will go through two examples:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial has two examples:
```

1. Deployment of [Llama2-7b](https://huggingface.co/meta-llama/Llama-2-7b-chat-hf) using single HPU:

    * How to load model in HPU

    * How to perform generation on HPU

    * How to enable HPU Graph optimization

2. Deployment of [Llama2-70b](https://huggingface.co/meta-llama/Llama-2-70b-chat-hf) using multiple HPUs on single node:

    * How to use DeepSpeed with HPU

    * How to load sharded model in DeepSpeed workers

    * How to stream response from DeepSpeed workers

This tutorial should help you with following use cases:

* You want to serve a large language model on HPU

* You want to serve a large language model using DeepSpeed on HPU

> ## Environment Setup

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Environment setup
```

We recommend using a prebuilt container to run these examples. To run a container, you will need Docker. Please refer to [here](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/) to install it if you haven't.

> Next, ensure that the drivers and container runtime
> are installed, if not, refer to [this guide](https://docs.habana.ai/en/latest/Installation_Guide/Bare_Metal_Fresh_OS.html?highlight=installer#run-using-containers). To verify your installation, start a shell and run `hl-smi`, and it should print information like this:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Next, follow [this guide](https://docs.habana.ai/en/latest/Installation_Guide/Bare_Metal_Fresh_OS.html?highlight=installer#run-using-containers) to install the Habana drivers and container runtime. To verify your installation, start a shell and run `hl-smi`. It should print status information about the HPUs on the machine:
```

| N/A   25C   N/A    86W / 600W |    768MiB / 98304MiB |     0%           N/A |
|-------------------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| Compute Processes:                                               AIP Memory |
|  AIP       PID   Type   Process name                             Usage      |
|=============================================================================|
|   0        N/A   N/A    N/A                                      N/A        |
|   1        N/A   N/A    N/A                                      N/A        |
|   2        N/A   N/A    N/A                                      N/A        |
|   3        N/A   N/A    N/A                                      N/A        |
|   4        N/A   N/A    N/A                                      N/A        |
|   5        N/A   N/A    N/A                                      N/A        |
|   6        N/A   N/A    N/A                                      N/A        |
|   7        N/A   N/A    N/A                                      N/A        |
+=============================================================================+
```

> If it works, you can then start a container like this:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Next, start the Habana container:
```

```bash
docker pull vault.habana.ai/gaudi-docker/1.14.0/ubuntu22.04/habanalabs/pytorch-installer-2.1.1:latest
docker run -it --runtime=habana -e HABANA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=all -e OMPI_MCA_btl_vader_single_copy_mechanism=none --cap-add=sys_nice --net=host --ipc=host vault.habana.ai/gaudi-docker/1.14.0/ubuntu22.04/habanalabs/pytorch-installer-2.1.1:latest
```

> Note that you may want to mount the directory containing the examples into the container, as well as the models.
> 
> Inside the container, run

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To follow the examples in this tutorial, mount the directory containing the examples and models into the container. Inside the container, run
```

```bash
pip install ray[tune,serve]
pip install git+https://github.com/huggingface/optimum-habana.git

> # 1.14.0 should be replaced with the driver version of the container

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Replace 1.14.0 with the driver version of the container
```

pip install git+https://github.com/HabanaAI/DeepSpeed.git@1.14.0

> # Only needed by the deepspeed example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Only needed by the DeepSpeed example
```

export RAY_EXPERIMENTAL_NOSET_HABANA_VISIBLE_MODULES=1
```

> Start a ray cluster via `ray start --head` and you are ready to run the examples.

Reviewer 2: Should they run this inside the container? If so could you replace this with:

```suggestion
Start a Ray in the container via `ray start --head`. You are now ready to run the examples.
```

> ## Single HPU Example

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Running a model on a single HPU
```

> This example shows how to deploy a Llama2-7b model on Gaudi for inference. 

Reviewer 2: Try to use one term (HPU/Gaudi) consistently; otherwise, it get a bit confusing what the tutorial is referring to.

```suggestion
This example shows how to deploy a Llama2-7b model on an HPU for inference. 
```

> First, define a deployment that serves Llama2-7b model using a HPU. Note that we enable [HPU graph optimization](https://docs.habana.ai/en/latest/Gaudi_Overview/SynapseAI_Software_Suite.html?highlight=graph#graph-compiler-and-runtime) for better performance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
First, define a deployment that serves a Llama2-7b model using an HPU. Note that we enable [HPU graph optimizations](https://docs.habana.ai/en/latest/Gaudi_Overview/SynapseAI_Software_Suite.html?highlight=graph#graph-compiler-and-runtime) for better performance.
```

> First, define a deployment that serves Llama2-7b model using a HPU. Note that we enable [HPU graph optimization](https://docs.habana.ai/en/latest/Gaudi_Overview/SynapseAI_Software_Suite.html?highlight=graph#graph-compiler-and-runtime) for better performance.

Reviewer 2: Could you double check that the tutorial uses _an_ HPU, not _a_ HPU?

Reviewer: From a tech writing perspective, it should be _an_ HPU, based on the way you would pronounce the letter "H". https://developers.google.com/style/articles

```{literalinclude} ../doc_code/hpu_inference_serve.py
:language: python
:start-after: __model_def_start__
:end-before: __model_def_end__
```

Copy the code above and save it as `hpu_inference_serve.py`. Start the deployment like this:

```bash
serve run hpu_inference_serve:entrypoint
```

> If it succeeds, you should see something like this:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The terminal should print logs as the deployment starts up:
```

```{literalinclude} ../doc_code/hpu_inference_client.py
:language: python
:start-after: __main_code_start__
:end-before: __main_code_end__
```

Here is an example output:
```text
Once upon a time, in a far-off land, there was a magical kingdom called "Happily Ever Laughter." It was a place where laughter was the key to unlocking all the joys of life, and where everyone lived in perfect harmony.
In this kingdom, there was a beautiful princess named Lily. She was kind, gentle, and had a heart full of laughter. Every day, she would wake up with a smile on her face, ready to face whatever adventures the day might bring.
One day, a wicked sorcerer cast a spell on the kingdom, causing all
in a far-off land, there was a magical kingdom called "Happily Ever Laughter." It was a place where laughter was the key to unlocking all the joys of life, and where everyone lived in perfect harmony.
In this kingdom, there was a beautiful princess named Lily. She was kind, gentle, and had a heart full of laughter. Every day, she would wake up with a smile on her face, ready to face whatever adventures the day might bring.
One day, a wicked sorcerer cast a spell on the kingdom, causing all
```

> ## Multiple HPU Example

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Running a sharded model on a multiple HPUs
```

This example shows how to deploy a Llama2-70b model using 8 HPUs orchestrated by DeepSpeed. 

> The example requires caching the Llama2-70b model. If you haven't cached it yet, run the following Python code in your container to cache the model. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The example requires caching the Llama2-70b model. Run the following Python code in the Habana container to cache the model. 
```

```python
from huggingface_hub import snapshot_download
snapshot_download(
    "meta-llama/Llama-2-70b-chat-hf",

>     # replace the path if necessary

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    # Replace the path if necessary
```

    cache_dir=os.getenv("TRANSFORMERS_CACHE", None),

>     # specify your huggingface token

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    # Specify your Hugging Face token
```

    token=""
)
```

> In this example, the deployment replica sends prompts to the deepspeed workers, which are running in ray actors:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, the deployment replica sends prompts to the Deepspeed workers, which are running in Ray actors:
```

```{literalinclude} ../doc_code/hpu_inference_serve_deepspeed.py
:language: python
:start-after: __worker_def_start__
:end-before: __worker_def_end__
```

Next, define a deployment:

```{literalinclude} ../doc_code/hpu_inference_serve_deepspeed.py
:language: python
:start-after: __deploy_def_start__
:end-before: __deploy_def_end__
```

> Copy both blocks of code above and save them into `hpu_inference_serve_deepspeed.py`. You can run this example using `serve run hpu_inference_serve_deepspeed:entrypoint`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Copy both blocks of code above and save them into `hpu_inference_serve_deepspeed.py`. Run this example using `serve run hpu_inference_serve_deepspeed:entrypoint`.
```

> If it succeds, you should see something like this:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The terminal should print logs as the deployment starts up:
```

Loading 15 checkpoint shards:  80%|████████  | 12/15 [04:05<00:49, 16.47s/it] [repeated 7x across cluster]
(ServeController pid=44317) WARNING 2024-02-01 06:13:27,770 controller 44317 deployment_state.py:2171 - Deployment 'DeepSpeedLlamaModel' in application 'default' has 1 replicas that have taken more than 30s to initialize. This may be caused by a slow __init__ or reconfigure method.
Loading 15 checkpoint shards:  87%|████████▋ | 13/15 [04:24<00:34, 17.26s/it] [repeated 8x across cluster]
(ServeController pid=44317) WARNING 2024-02-01 06:13:57,873 controller 44317 deployment_state.py:2171 - Deployment 'DeepSpeedLlamaModel' in application 'default' has 1 replicas that have taken more than 30s to initialize. This may be caused by a slow __init__ or reconfigure method.
Loading 15 checkpoint shards:  87%|████████▋ | 13/15 [04:25<00:34, 17.35s/it] [repeated 7x across cluster]
Loading 15 checkpoint shards:  93%|█████████▎| 14/15 [04:44<00:17, 17.55s/it]
Loading 15 checkpoint shards: 100%|██████████| 15/15 [05:02<00:00, 18.30s/it] [repeated 8x across cluster]
2024-02-01 06:14:24,054 SUCC scripts.py:483 -- Deployed Serve app successfully.
```

> Use the same code snippet introduced in Single HPU Example for sending requests to perform generation. An example output:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use the same code snippet introduced in Single HPU Example to send generation requests. Here's an example output:
```
